# Covid-19 Partisan model
Regression model measuring the effect of partisanship on death tolls from Covid-19

A statistical report and model on the partisanship of a state’s effect on COVID-19 mortality. We took a look on the approach different states were taking, specifically shelter-in-place protocols and mandating mask wearing, to tackle problem of COVID in order to compare rates of morality during the initial phase of the pandemic, 2020, between the two types of approaches split by parties. Democratic states tended to follow a more aggressive approach while Republicans tended to be more lax in they approach to the problem. The dataset used for this report was compiled by an external individual and includes information about spread of the disease, variables representing state-level policy response, and general state-level characteristics. Population information was taken from the US census office and governor information was obtained through kff.org. A regression model was constructed using shelter-in-place duration, party affiliation of governor, and population density to determine the death toll adjusted for population of the state. A discussion on the models performance, assessment of classical linear model assumptions, and omitted-variable bias were included in the report. We hypothesized that republicans lead states would have the higher death rates due to their management approach but in actuality, the population density is what played the biggest factor when it came to death rates, although party did have a small affect as well.

**Report is located in Covid-19_partisanship_model file.**
